



MMIVER8ITI P£fTRA MALAYSIA





Final Year Project Proposal (SSE 4949)

Title: Yield Management System For Sports Centre


Name: Nur-A-Alam Mohammad Arshid Nippon Matric Number: 186058
Supervisor: Dr. Khaironi Yatim Sharif Semester/ Sesi: Semester 1 2018/2019 Date: 31/08/2018


Table of Contents

Table of Contents
Chapter 1                                            3
1.1 Introduction.                                      3
1.2 Problem Statement.                                   4
1.3 Objectives.                                        5
1.4 Project Scope                                       5
Chapter 2.                                            7
2.1 Literature Review.                                    7
Chapter 3                                            10
3.1 Methodology                                      10
4.0 Expected Results.                                     11
5.0 Conclusion.                                         11
6.0 Gantt Chart.                                         12
7.0 References.                                         13





















2


Chapter 1


1.1 Introduction


A sports center is a place where various sports facilities are available. On sports center people 
are able to play different sports. Sports center provide different types of sports facilities to 
sportsmen or citizens. Peoples are able to get different sports facilities due to sports center.
The tradition of sports facilities construction dates 2500 years back (to Egypt, China, Greece), 
and since then a particular stress has been on esthetic and functional quality. What has been 
changed in the concept of construction and purpose of facilities, is conditioned by latter 
cultural, technological and social changes. Today, sports facilities management is also focused on 
the efficiency of use of this resource by its owner and manager, but also the expectations in 
regard to entertainment, comfort, and overall user satisfaction (Dugalid, 2005).

There is lot of sports center available now a days. Most of Sports center facing problem to get 
more revenue from their business. During peak hour demand is always high but other time demand 
become very low. Due to less engaging with user its become very hard to get more revenue for sports 
center.
On the other hand, people are very busy with their work. It's very hard for them to go physically 
to any sports center and find available time to play their favorite sport. Due to less time to 
search query from sports center people also don't use sports center as easily which also causes of 
less revenue for sports center.

This research project focus on developing a system that provide opportunity to sports center to 
earn more many as well as more engaging with sports lovers. it understands, anticipates and reacts 
to the behavior of customer to maximize revenue for the sports center. This takes into account the 
operating costs and aids Sports center to optimize prices and allocate capacity to maximize 
expected revenues



3







1.2 Problem Statement

According to XY sports center their facilities are world class, but they face problem to get more 
revenue. On weekend their sports center facilities are all time full and some user are all the time 
asking for facilities to rent on weekend, but they are unable to give them chance to use it. 
Despite high demand on weekend they are only able to earn certain revenue. They are willing to earn 
more revenue using this high demand time. On the other during off peak hour they don't get enough 
customer to book their facilities, which cause less revenue for them, because still they have a 
maintain cost for that time also. They also face problem, when some customer cancels their booking. 
They are unable to engage with other queue customer, who previously looking for same facilities for 
same time and had a wish to use that. At on the other week days demand of sports facilities become 
low which also cause less revenue. There is also some facilities which are always empty but people 
are unable to use sports facilities due to high pricing. Some people are come to sports center for 
playing any facilities but all the facilities price are same that's why they don't book. And sports 
center payment option is also complicated which also reduce interest of customer to use sports 
center. All these causes totally reduce the of their sports center.
On the other hand, some people are want to use sports facilities but due to high demand and out of 
price range on weekend they can't use sports facilities. They have a wish to use sports center, but 
they can't. And even some people are failing to book sports facilities on weekend, but they don't 
know does the facility is available or not.




4






1.3 Objectives


The objective of Yield Management System for Sports Centre are:

1. To give opportunity to earn maximum revenue to sports center.
2. To provide opportunity to engaging more customer during off peak hour.
3. To create chance for sports center to fill sudden empty slot by providing chance of booking to 
next queue customers.
4. To facilitate customer with a lower price during weekdays.
5. To design a user-friendly web based online booking system with easy payment option.







1.4 Project Scope

To successfully achieve the objective of this project, the scope is focused mainly on software 
development. To develop this system some modern web technology will be used to achieve project 
objective. This system will provide opportunity to sports center to optimize prices and allocate 
capacity to maximize expected revenues. it will understands, anticipates and reacts to the behavior 
of customer to maximize revenue for the organization. This takes into account the operating costs 
and aids Sports center to optimize prices and allocate capacity to maximize expected revenues. The 
optimization will done on two levels in Sports center:
•  Time: Pricing of facilities will be divided based on the peak hour and off-peak hour. Fees for 
during off peak hours will be lower than peak hours. A reservation done at a later date will be 
charged more than the one done earlier — for the same facilities).
5



•  Day: Pricing of facilities will be divided based on the weekdays and weekend.

It will adjust pricing according to demand of the facilities.

The effective method however is to combine these two levels for all facilities so that both the 
time and the days are effectively priced for all the facilities.


This system will provide sports center to fill their suddenly empty slot by giving a notification 
to queue customer who is willing to book that specific facility on exactly same time and date. It 
will reduce the loss of not having customer on a expected time and will increase revenue of the 
sports center.
Due to having less price on a weekdays interested people will get chance to use sports facilities 
and will add more revenue for sports center. A online payment system will solve the complicated 
payment problem and people will engage more.

Some modern technologies will be used to build this system. Technologies that will be used in this 
system are.
1. Laravel (php framework)

2. Bootstrap

3. Node.js

4. Axios.js

5. Vue.js

6. mysql

These technologies will provide better user interfaces and smooth and dynamic websites.





6




Chapter 2

2.1 Literature Review

Literature review is important to this project because it will provide an overview of what is going 
to be developed. It also helps to identify what others has done in their projects, identifying the 
strength and weakness so there is some improvement can be done to this online Yield Management 
System For Sports Centre booking system.
Openplay.net already built a sports center facility booking system for sports center. They provide 
user opportunity to book sports facility, online payment option, cancelation.

















Figure 2.1.1 Openplay


The Hong Kong polytechnic University made a sports facility booking system, known as “CENTRE 
STARS". On this system they provide opportunity to the user to book their sports facility inside 
their campus and only for their registered user.
7
















Sports Facllities Booking System







Figure 2.1.2 CENTRE STARS


SKEDDA is also build a sports facility booking system. They provide facility booking system for any 
sports center. They also provide opportunity to sports center to manage user of their system.












Figure 2.1.3 SKEEDA


8



Sports booker is another available system which provide any organization to manage their sports 
facilities and booking of those facilities.


















Figure 2.1.4 Sports booker system


City university of Hong Kong also has a sports facility booking system. They built it to facilitate 
students and staffs.





So based on all the literature provided, most of the system that has been develop is either too 
complex or contains less components that makes the system incomplete. In the end, for this project 
I'll try to make a much simpler approach for this system but still functional according to the 
objectives.




9



Chapter 3

3.1 Methodology



Methodology to be used in Yield Management System For Sports Centre booking system is Agile 
software development  methodology specially Scrum Project Management. For our system we will focus 
on adaptive planning, evolutionary development and delivery, continues improvement, and a 
time-boxed period of time to complete a body of work. By using Scrum Project Management, we will 
get chance to provide rapid and flexible response to change.
Before actually building the system, a discussion has been done with the sports center authority 
who will be the user of this system. Based on this, the new requirement is identified, and a 
proposal is made to increase revenue as well as provide user more chances to get better experience.


















10




4.0 Expected Results

Based on the planning of the development, Yield Management System For Sports Centre will be able 
to:

• System must be able to optimize pricing of facilities based on time and days.
•  System must be able to send notification of sudden empty of facilities to queue customer.

•  The system must be able to increase revenue to the sports center.

• The system must be able to optimize pricing on a high demand period.



5.0 Conclusion

Yield Management System For Sports Centre is develop to provide opportunity to sports center to 
earn more revenue as well as provide opportunity to customer to use sports facilities. All the user 
interfaces of this system is easy to understand and user can easily understand the systems 
functions.

Project objectives and scope is followed specifically to ensure that the develop system is fully 
functioning and runs smoothly. Overall, this project proposal will only describe the early stages 
in making this project before a more thorough study is done.









11



6.0 Gantt Chart













































12



7.0 References

1.   http://braziI.cityu.edu.hk:8754/fbi/owa/fbi web first.showlndoors. [online]

2.  http://www.polyu.edu.hk/stars/sports/sports-facilities/sports-facilities- booking-system 
[online]
3.  http://openpIay.net/sports-venue-management-software [online]

4.  http://www.sports-booker.com . [online]

5.   https://www.skedda.com/home/online-court-booking-system[online]

6.   Dugalié, S.  (2005). Finansijski i marketins*ki aspekti strategija u sportu.

Beograd: Vi*sa *skola za sportske trenere.



























13



Prepared by:





(Nur-A-Alam Mohammad Arshid Nippon)
Date:
Endorsed by:






(Dr. Khaironi Yatim Sharifj Date:
Stamp












































14
